# Universal File Converter
This is a program for converting Audio and Video files into another type based on preset conversions using the FFMPEG system.

## Requirements
- Python 3.12+
- IDE To run the app.py file.
- [FFMPEG](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-windows) or [Windows Pre-Packaged FFMPEG](https://github.com/BtbN/FFmpeg-Builds/releases)

### FFMPEG Install Instructions
[Instructions Here on the FFMPEG-Python Documentation](https://github.com/kkroening/ffmpeg-python)
1. Simply download and place into a folder where you can remember.
2. Update path with the FFMPEG installation /bin folder.
3. You can check your version by running `ffmpeg` in your terminal to check the version.

## How to Use
### Windows
1. Open the command prompt or powershell.
2. Navigate using `cd` to the root folder of the program where `app.py` is located. Ex: `cd C:\Users\YourName\Documents\FileConverter`
3. Activate the Virtual Environment with `.\.venv\Scripts\activate`. You should now see (venv) within your terminal.
4. run `app.py` with `python app.py`

### macOC/Linux
1. Open the terminal
2. Navigate using `cd` to the root folder of the program where `app.py` is located.
3. Activate the Virtual Environment with `.\.venv\Scripts\activate`. You should now see (venv) within your terminal.
4. run `app.py` with `python3 app.py`

### IDE (VS Code, PyCharm)
1. Open folder in your IDE of choice.
2. Activate Virtual Environment or install `ffmpeg-python`, `ffmpeg_progress_yield` and `ttkboostrap`
3. Run `app.py`

## Exporting
Files that are exported go in the `./Export` folder that comes with the source code. There are two different exporting modes:
### Single Export
Single files that are converted will be simply exported into the directory.
### Batch Export
Batch files will be placed in a Batch folder created when you convert.
Different instances of a batch will create another batch folder.